Getting a Shell
Getting a reverse shell from SyncBreeze
should now be as simple as replacing our
buffer of D’s with the shellcode and
launching our exploit.
Our shellcode will be sent in place of the
D’s, after the offset, eip, and filler.
However, in this particular case, we have
another hurdle to overcome.
Let’s execute this JMP ESP instruction
with F7 to land in our shellcode.
In the previous step, we generated an
encoded shellcode using msfvenom.
Because of the encoding, the shellcode is
not directly executable
and is therefore prepended by a decoder
stub.
The job of this stub is to iterate over
the encoded shellcode bytes
and decode them back to their original
executable form.
In order to perform this task, the decoder
needs to gather its address in memory
and from there look a few bytes ahead to
locate the encoded shellcode
that it needs to decode.
As part of the process of gathering the decoder stub’s location in memory,
the code performs a sequence of assembly instructions,
which are commonly referred to as a GetPC
routine.
This is essentially a short routine that
moves the value of the EIP register
(sometimes referred to as the Program
Counter or PC) into another register.
As with other GetPC routines, those used
by shikata_ga_nai
have an unfortunate side-effect of writing
some data
at and around the top of the stack.
This eventually mangles at least a couple
of bytes close to the address
pointed to by the ESP register.
After we single step through the first 3
decoder instructions with F7,
we receive an access violation.
In the memory dump pane, we find that our
return address, offset,
and other data was overwritten by the
decoder.
Unfortunately, this small change on the
stack is a problem for us
because the decoder starts exactly at the
address pointed to by the ESP register.
In short, the GetPC routine execution ends
up changing a few bytes of the decoder
itself (and potentially the encoded
shellcode),
which eventually fails the decoding
process and crashes the target process.
One method to avoid this issue is to
adjust ESP backwards
before executing the decoder.
Alternatively, we could create a wide
“landing pad” for our JMP ESP,
such that when execution lands anywhere on
this pad,
it will continue on to our payload.
This may sound complicated, but we simply
precede our payload with a series of
No Operation (or NOP) instructions, which
have an opcode value of hex 90.
As the name suggests, these instructions
do nothing, and simply pass execution
to the next instruction.
Used in this way, these instructions,
also defined as a NOP sled or NOP slide,
will let the CPU “slide” through the NOPs
until the payload is reached.
In both cases, by the time the execution
reaches the shellcode decoder,
the stack pointer points far enough away
from it so as to not corrupt the shellcode
when the GetPC routine overwrites a few
bytes on the stack.
In our final exploit,
we add 10 NOPs immediately before our
reverse shell payload.
Let’s send this exploit and check it out
in the debugger.
We’ll execute our JMP ESP instruction and
land in our NOP sled.
Now let’s step through the first steps of
the encoder
to make sure we’ve solved our issue.
Great, the decoder is working properly
now.
Let’s restart sync breeze and run our
exploit without the debugger attached.
In anticipation of the reverse shell
payload,
we’ll configure a Netcat listener on port
443.
Now we’ll execute the exploit, which
should hopefully provide us with a
SYSTEM reverse shell from our victim
machine.
Excellent! It works.
We have created a fully working exploit
for a buffer overflow vulnerability
from scratch.
However, there is still one small
inconvenience to overcome.
Notice that once we exit the reverse
shell,
the SyncBreeze service crashes and exits.
This is far from ideal.